[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm William Henry, and
this is "Ascension Keepers."
Just imagine if
suddenly, all you
believed about higher
consciousness, ascension,
and your potential as a
spiritual being was ripped away
from you and forbidden by the
decree of a king or a dictator.
Then you were exiled
to a foreign land
and told that you could
never again see your home
or practice your
wisdom tradition.
This happened to the
predecessors of the Essenes
during the purge of
King Josiah in 586 BC
and is a pivotal moment in
the timeline of the Ascension
Keepers and in
our own ascension.
After this event, soul
groups, like the Essenes,
Gnostics and Cathars
were labeled heretics
by orthodox or
mainstream religion.
In actuality, they were
more like reactionaries.
They weren't dissenters, as
the term heresy suggests.
They merely sought to retain
or recover the original wisdom
tradition, which included
teachings about ascension,
brought to Earth by
celestial beings,
that the orthodox religions
replaced and labeled as heresy.
In this episode, we will reveal
the lost and secret history
of this purge to see how this
became the motivating incident,
the necessary backstory for
the formation of the Essenes
and how this impacts our
present day ascension program.
Our story begins with
the Temple of Solomon
in Jerusalem, the ascension
site for Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam.
Originally built by King
Solomon at around 950 BC,
this temple at the
center of the world
was based on a plan given to
Solomon by his father, King
David, by God.
David brought the Ark of
the Covenant to this site.
The temple was to be
the raised up place
where the Ark would stay
and where the Old Testament
God, Yaweh, dwelled.
It is said that Solomon built
the temple by magical means.
It sat on an artificial
hill or holy mountain,
a gigantic, 37-acre
platform, actually,
called Moriah or
Zion, the city of God
or the place that God loves.
And God is said to have named
it Jerusalem, a name that
means to teach peace.
Moriah is called Even
haShetiya, the Foundation Stone.
According to Jewish
tradition, God
began the creation
of the universe here.
Even up to the Middle
Ages, Jerusalem
was shown on maps as
the center of the world.
The dust of Moriah is said to
have been used to create Adam.
And like all temples in
the ancient Near East,
Solomon's Temple was the
architectural embodiment
of the cosmic mountain
or the cosmic axis.
It may not be coincidental
that Moriah is phonetically
similar to Meru, the cosmic
axis of Tibetan Buddhism
and the route of Sumeru, where
the Tower of Babel was located.
The Essenes called the
Temple of Solomon, The Tower.
In other words, it was a link
between heaven and earth,
with gods and divine
beings coming and going
and humans ascending
from this place.
It was here that Abraham
met with Melchizedek,
a very powerful celestial
being, and where
Jacob had his dream of
the ladder to heaven.
Melchizedek Muhammad
ascended from this place
during the Mirage or Night
Journey around the year 621 AD.
Mohammed ascended into
heaven with the Angel Gabriel
and met a different prophet
in each of the seven levels
of heaven, first Adam, then
John the Baptist and Jesus,
then Joseph, then Idris,
then Aaron, then Moses,
and lastly, Abraham.
King Solomon himself was one
of the greatest magicians
who ever lived.
He received wisdom
directly from God.
Legend claims that he used the
shamir, a worm or substance
that had the power to cut
through or disintegrate stone,
iron, and diamond.
Moses reputedly used
the shamir to engrave
the priestly
breastplate stones that
were inserted into the
breastplate of the Essen.
When the High Priest emerged
from the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's Temple, and
sunlight hit the breastplate,
its multicolored stones
radiated rainbows.
Because the symbols of
the High Priest's outfit,
the crown, the robe, the
Rod of Enlightenment,
matched the crown, robe,
and resurrection stick
of the Tibetan rainbow
light body tradition,
I have proposed it is
symbolic of the rainbow light
body or perfect light body.
This connection is key to
understanding the goings
on in the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's Temple
and to what the Essenes were
doing at Qumran and elsewhere.
The name Moriah, the mount
upon which the temple sat,
actually comes from the root
raha, which means "to see."
It was the place
where epiphanies
from the Greek Epifania or
apparition or appearances
or manifestations of
divine beings took place.
For over 300 years,
these manifestations
took place inside this temple.
People saw God.
He or his throne was described
as luminous, radiating rainbow
light.
We will see this motif
returning again and again
in our exploration.
This rainbow throne
is clearly mobile.
The depictions of thrones
on Sumerian and Babylonian
cylinder seals became the basis
for Judeo-Christian images
of God as a human on
a throne in the stars.
And when that throne
landed, it did so
in the Holy of Holies
of Solomon's temple.
These appearances
took place in the Holy
of Holies of the temple.
A golden, cube-shaped room
with walls lined with gold
and covered with
images of palm trees.
It was the Garden of
Eden or a recreation
of the Garden of Eden.
The shiny golden walls
must have made it
like being in a hall of mirrors.
In "Temple Mysticism,"
Dr. Margaret Barker
describes it as a cube of
fire, alive with fiery beings.
The throne was flashing
fire within a fiery cloud,
and from the fire came the
likeness of four living
creatures.
Ezekiel describes
the Holy of Holies.
Over this fire was a throne
with a human figure upon it,
and he too was fiery.
This was the appearance
of the likeness
of the glory of the Lord.
On his heavenly journey,
Enoch saw such fiery beings.
They were like flaming fire
and could take human form.
They took me to a
place in which those
who were like flaming
fire, and when they wished,
they appeared as
men, said Enoch.
When the Temple of
Solomon was operational,
human high priests would
enter the Holy of Holies
by crossing over or
through a veil of stars.
This represented the
border between the human
and the divine realms.
In other words, the
Temple of Solomon
was an intersection
between heaven and earth,
where God or the angels
materialized or appeared.
Hence it was a place to be with
God and a source of salvation.
This veil was what the
Essenes termed the Raznahaya,
or the mystery of
existence or becoming,
on which the wise
were to meditate.
This knowledge originated in
the temple's Holy of Holies
and was revealed to those who
entered Heaven and ascended.
These people lived in harmony
and resonance with creation,
and they lived with angels.
It's important to note the
meaning of the word Most Holy.
What this means is that
the cube-shaped room
and the objects
therein, including
the Ark of the Covenant, could
transmit holiness and make
anyone and anything that came
into contact with this place
holy.
This is why access to this
place was so important.
It was also a
place of ascension.
Humans entering this
cube-shaped room
ascended to the heavenly realms.
Clearly, we're talking about
this place as a stargate.
And it was in continuous
operation for over 300 years,
until, in our
ascension timeline,
two key events now
drive the story.
One was the accession of
King Josiah, a boy king,
who came to the
throne of Jerusalem
in 640 BC and his purging
of the temple in 623 BC.
And the second event was
the Babylonian destruction
of Jerusalem, including
the Temple of Solomon,
and the exile of her people
four decades later, in 597 BC.
As the Book of Chronicles
tells us, in 623 BC,
during the 18th
year of his reign,
Josiah was
refurbishing the Temple
of Solomon, which the
previous kings had neglected.
During the restoration,
a high priest
named Helikia discovered a
book, the Book of the Law,
given to Moses.
When Josiah discovered
what he said,
he summoned all the subjects
of Jerusalem and Judah
to the temple and read
for them the new law.
The new law book is called
The Book of Deuteronomy
or the Book of the Covenant.
It was received by Moses, we're
told, in the burning bush.
At its heart are
the 10 Commandments,
the laws of Yahweh.
Deuteronomy's laws
and ordinances
were upheld as the new
wisdom and understanding.
It was completely different
from the older wisdom
tradition, which was
now forbidden by Josiah.
We can begin to understand
this older wisdom tradition
by following Josiah's actions.
More than just a
book of the law,
Deuteronomy compelled
Josiah to go on a rampage,
destroying the shrines in
the high places of worship,
the Asherah and images,
and removed their name
from the land.
Then he purged the temple.
As we will see, the
Asherah is the symbol
of the divine feminine.
Deuteronomy forbade alien
religions, altars, pillars,
ashrams, and images.
All were to be destroyed,
smashed, and burned.
Worshipping celestial
beings, the Host of Heaven,
became a capital offense.
Looking at the stars
was also forbidden,
for fear the people would
once again worship the Host
of Heaven, the angelic beings.
All forms of divination
were outlawed.
Punishment for disobedience
was death by stoning.
All of these
practices were later
observed by the
Essenes, who claimed
they were living with angels and
were able to tell the future.
At the core of the old
tradition was the breastplate
of the high priest.
It was composed of 12 stones
and contained the ephod.
Inside the breastplate where two
stones called Urim and Thummim.
These stones were called
lights and perfection,
and it is the root
of the name Essenes.
The High Priest would
put on the breastplate
when he entered the Holy of
Holies to speak with the Lord.
These stones were
among five items
that went missing during
the time of Josiah
and the Babylonian
King Nebuchadnezzar.
The other items were
the Ark of the Covenant,
the flask of manna, the
cruet of anointing oil,
and the rod of enlightenment.
All of these tools
worked together.
Returning to our
timeline, in 586 BC,
Nebuchadnezzar and
the Babylonians
conquered Jerusalem.
Flattened its walls.
Stripped Solomon's Temple
of all its treasure,
set the city ablaze, and
returned home to Babylon
with the treasure of
the temple and a group
of royal prisoners of war.
The great third
century book of Ezra
tells us that the
Babylonians took
all the holy vessels of the
temple, both great and small,
and the Ark of God and
the King's treasures
and carried them
away to Babylon.
Thousands of Jews were exiled to
Babylon, including the prophets
Daniel and Ezekiel.
Nothing is said in the Bible
about the Ark of the Covenant
after the Jews
returned from Babylon.
The Apocrypha states
that the Ark could not
be found when the Jewish people
rebuilt the temple at the time
of Ezra and Zachariah.
Deuteronomy mentions
none of these items.
The reason why is because
they were associated
with the original wisdom
tradition of the Divine
Feminine practiced
by the Israelites
at the Temple of Solomon.
In Jewish tradition,
all of these items
will be recovered by
her son, the Messiah,
and returned to Jerusalem when
the Temple of Solomon is built.
This will occur, we are told, in
the end times or judgment day.
In their place was the
closed and empty golden box
they called the Ark of
the Covenant and stories
that the empty box went
to Ethiopia or elsewhere.
If this Ark were
compared to a computer,
it would be a screen
minus the keyboard, mouse,
power cord, and software.
In other words, a useless
piece of technology.
This is why many researchers
typically present
the Ark of the Covenant
as a golden box
and do not mention
its other components.
They're just not
aware of its history.
But this was only the
beginning of Josiah's changing
of the gods.
The mystic priests
of the temple were
evicted, as they were
considered unclean or blemished.
These refugees fled
to Egypt, where
they built a copy of Solomon's
Temple at Elephantine Island.
They are also believed to have
fled to Arabia, Tibet, Russia,
and China.
One group who fled in particular
catches our attention.
They were called the Rechabites.
While we may not be
familiar with them,
their story was widely
known to the Essenes
and in early Gnostic
Christian ascension circles.
Josiah tried to convert the
Rechabites to the new law,
but they refused.
They were imprisoned,
but they were
set free by angels, who took
them to a paradise place,
where light was perpetual.
There, the Rechabites
lived with the angels
and prayed for their
brethren left on earth.
Apparently, they were taken
in flesh and blood form,
as as the story
goes, when they died,
the angels buried them in
graves and took their souls
in light body form up to heaven.
The history of the
Rechabites says
they wore garments
of glory or light,
just like the light bodies of
Adam and Eve before the fall.
These are the light bodies
we have been discussing
and the object of
the Essene quest.
The name Rechabites means
"people of the chariot."
Later, they were called the
Nazora, a word very similar
to Nazarene, the watchers.
The chariot for
whom they were named
is believed to be the
Merkaba, or Chariot Throne,
that was present in the Holy
of Holies of Solomon's Temple.
This Chariot Throne
is the primary symbol
of the old-time
ascension religion
Josiah purged from the temple.
The book "Second Kings"
tells us explicitly
that Josiah burned that
Chariots of the Sun.
These are the chariots
of the gods, the Merkaba
chariot of Elijah.
Deuteronomy does not mention the
Golden Chariot of the cherubim
that the Lord told David
to set in the temple.
Perhaps it is another of
the missing items that
included the Ark of the
Covenant, the Rod of Aaron,
the flask of manna, and
the jar of anointing oil.
It was the Essenes who called
this chariot the Merkaba Throne
Chariot.
They remembered it.
It was during the
Babylonian exile
that mystical books like
3 Enoch were collected.
These books described
the chariot throne
and are therefore
known as Merkaba Texts.
This story is important, as it
matches precisely the community
rule of the Essenes, who
sought this very throne,
plus the crown and the robe.
Ezekiel, the tragedian,
shares the name
of a high priest of the
Temple of Solomon, Ezekiel,
which means he knew about
the workings of the temple.
We are told in a book that
bears his name that Ezekiel
was near the banks of the River
Chebar on July 28, 593 BC,
when suddenly a whirlwind, a
great cloud with brightness
about it, appeared.
Inside the cloud were
four living creatures.
He sees wheels within wheels
that have the ability to fly.
Above them was a throne,
and on the throne
was the likeness of a man.
Ezekiel describes the being
on the throne as something
that seemed like human form.
Ezekiel saw the chariot throne
leaving the temple of Solomon.
He saw first that a cloud filled
the inner court of the temple,
and then that this
was the brightness
of the glory of the Lord.
As the chariot
arrived in Babylon,
Ezekiel saw a great
cloud approaching,
with brightness all around.
The brightness was like a
rainbow in a rain cloud.
And in the midst of
the bright clouds,
said Ezekiel, was
a fiery human form.
The throne moved in a
cloud, in his vision,
which is often cited as
an ancient UFO encounter.
Ezekiel is given a vision
of a new Temple of Solomon.
And Ezekiel's
story can easily be
illustrated with Tibetan art.
Ezekiel saw the chariot
throne in its glory,
returning from the
east, to the temple,
exactly as he had
seen it depart.
And it was returning
to the rebuilt temple.
The rainbow was the sign of the
everlasting covenant mentioned
in the book of Genesis.
The rainbow around
the chariot throne
was the sign and seal of the
original, old-time wisdom
tradition that was replaced
by the Book of Deuteronomy.
This vision, which is at the
core of the Book of Ezekiel,
became another key teaching of
the Merkaba mystics, especially
the Essenes.
While the word chariot is not
used in Ezekiel's account,
mystics assume
that he is speaking
of the chariot of the gods.
And while some might interpret
this as a hardware spaceship,
the Essenes knew that it was
composed of consciousness.
Importantly, the
celestial chariot
is also referred to
as the sacred boat.
And these Merkaba
mystics claim to be
able to duplicate Ezekiel's
experience of ascending
to the heavens in this
chariot or sailing
the stars in this boat.
In addition to
Ezekiel, they favored
Enoch, one of the founders of
the Essenes, as a wayshower.
Before Moses, the Jews,
including Ezekiel,
focused their religion on
Enoch and his books, which
tell how angels and righteous
ones initiated humans
in the secrets of heaven.
Enoch is a mysterious
pre-flood figure
who is mentioned only
once in the Old Testament.
It says he walked
with God, which
many assumed to mean he was
taken bodily into heaven.
The Essenes made a sort
of a superhero out of him,
telling in detail how he was
the first translated man,
the first man raised
from human to an angel.
In fact, he was transformed
into the Great Angel,
Metatron, whose name means
"next to the throne."
In one episode,
told in First Enoch,
we are told the Archangel
Michael came and took Enoch
to Heaven.
Along the way he
anointed his body
with an oil that
dissolved Enochs body
into rainbow-colored
light, so that it matched
the light bodies of the angels.
And in Christian art, Michael
is shown wearing peacock wings.
The iridescent
peacock's feathers
feature all of the
colors of the rainbow
and are symbolic of the
light body of the angels.
Enoch's ascension story not
only told the Essenes and others
what to do, but how to do it.
Get on the radar of Michael
and the other angels
and find this oil.
This is the anointing oil kept
in the Ark of the Covenant.
Importantly, John the
Revelator saw the rainbow
around the throne.
And when he saw the mighty
angel coming from heaven
with his little scroll,
he was wrapped in a cloud,
with a rainbow around his head.
Scholars like Dr.
Margaret Barker
observed that Josiah's
destruction of the older wisdom
tradition, the
ascension tradition,
was more devastating
than even the loss
of Solomon's temple itself.
In contemporary terms, we
may say that Nebuchadnezzar
destroyed the hardware
of the temple,
but Josiah deleted or
attempted to delete
the software of the
temple and its vital code.
It was a dismantling of the
original ascension teachings.
What this means is that there
was another wisdom tradition
practiced in Jerusalem
and the Temple of Solomon
before it was destroyed.
It was this religion
that the Essenes later
tried to recover and revive.
It is the ascension
tradition of Enoch, Ezekiel,
and all the ascension keepers.
It is based on the
teachings of the angels, who
are rainbow light beings.
It was also during this
period, between Josiah's purge
and the destruction
of the temple,
that the Queen of
Heaven was abandoned.
Josiah dispatched the
angels from Jerusalem
and centralized
power in his hands.
First Enoch tells how the Jews
worshipped the Queen of Heaven.
Images portray her as an
angelic-like figure with wings.
Deuteronomy forbade even
looking up to the heavens,
lest people worship
these angels.
And some believe it was
because of the abandonment
of the Divine Feminine
that Jerusalem was lost.
This version of history is also
found in the Essenes Damascus
Document, which was the
work of the refugee priests.
The Damascus
Document makes clear
that the priests returning to
the rebuilt Temple of Solomon
during the time of
the Essenes were not
from the original
ascension wisdom tradition.
Instead, they were Josiah's
priests, if you will.
They rebuilt the
Temple of Solomon,
and the Essenes had
a problem with them
and the way they
were running things.
They wanted their
old-time wisdom tradition.
ascension teachings.
After the destruction
of the Essenes,
these same Josiah
priests, if you will,
were responsible for
rewriting Hebrew history
and calling the
Essenes heretics.
In fact, all those
who remembered
the ascension wisdom teachings
were labeled as heretics.
We can begin to recover
this spiritual tradition
and early wisdom teachings
by accounting for the items
Josiah purged from the
temple and/or destroyed.
We mentioned the
Ark of the Covenant,
but foremost is the Asherah, the
symbol of the goddess Asherah,
who is presented as an
alien entity, closely linked
to the Host of Heaven.
Asherah was the wife of El, the
head of the Canaanite pantheon,
and probably the mother
of the gods in Canaanite
and later Jewish tradition.
Some literary evidence
in ancient Israel
even speaks of Asherah as the
consort of the Old Testament
god Yaweh himself.
The removal of the Asherah,
the symbol of this goddess,
and its destruction is
described in detail.
Josiah took it took it
to the Valley of Kidron,
burned it, beat it
to dust or powder,
and spread it over
the common graves.
When Josiah destroyed
the Asherah,
he also broke down the houses
of the male cult prostitutes who
were in the House of the
Lord, the Temple of Solomon,
where the women wove
hangings for the Asherah.
These cult prostitutes
were actually
angels, the women who wove the
linen clothing of the angels.
We can trace the Asherah to
Egypt, in the form of Hathor,
who was called the
Queen of Heaven
and who was crowned
with the moon.
The Asherah Poles
are likely the same
as the Hathor Pillars
of Egypt, especially
those at Hathor's Temple, at
Dendera, the temple of love
and joy in Dendera.
Dendera is the Greek name for
the Egyptian Ta-ynt-netert,
which means She of
the Divine Pillar.
That name is a reference to
the Djed Pillar, this device
or World Tree.
Hathor is Asherah,
says the scholar,
William Dever, and
other archaeologists,
echoing a long known fact
known in goddess circles.
In fact, he calls
her Hathor Asherah,
and on an Egyptian plaque, she
is listed as Qudshu, Hathor,
Asherah, Anat, and Astarte.
They are all the same goddess.
Qudshu is the Egyptian form
of the word Qetesh, Qedesh,
Kadesh, or Kadesha.
It means Feminine Holy One, or
holiness in Hebrew, Canaanite,
and Egyptian.
In 1967, Raphael Patai
was the first historian
to mention that the ancient
Israelites worshipped
both Yahweh and Asherah.
In his book, "The
Hebrew Goddess,"
he calculated that
the statue of Asherah
was present in the
Temple of Solomon
for no less than 236 years.
2/3 of the time, the Solomonic
temple stood in Jerusalem.
This worship, he asserts, was
part of the legitimate religion
approved and led by the king,
the court, and the priesthood.
King Solomon
assuredly surely knew
who or what Asherah denoted
and of its origins in Egypt.
And as Josiah learned, striking
this goddess from the Israelite
mind was not easy.
The image of the Asherah
would not go away,
nor would the quest
for ascension.
What we have just learned from
this incredible historical
investigation is
that there was once
an alternative, a parallel
mystery tradition,
based on the idea
of human ascension,
that it had its focus place
at the Temple of Solomon,
and that it was ultimately lost.
This had the effect, in a
way, of knocking humanity
off its timeline.
It's as if we knew
for a very long time
that our destiny was to ascend.
That we had an understanding
of the Hosts of Heaven,
of extraterrestrial
beings, and of angels
who were here to assist us.
But then there was this
changing of the gods,
for whatever reason, but perhaps
it has a benevolent purpose.
We lost our connection
to these stellar beings,
to these star beings,
and this understanding
of our quest for perfection.
Inserted in its
place was a religion
that has certainly benefited
hundreds of millions of people.
But within these religions
of Judaism and Christianity,
there are always
these references
to the old-time mysteries and
to the mysteries of ascension.
And the value in
going on this quest
is that we can reorient
the human species.
We can bring it back to its
original ascension timeline,
reach into the stars, and
achieve our fullest destiny.
[MUSIC PLAYING]